England have reshuffled their back division for Sunday's pivotal Six Nations clash against Ireland at Twickenham, with coach Eddie Jones moving Jonathan Joseph to the left wing and Elliot Daly returning to full-back. An unspecified injury to full-back George Furbank has led to changes in the back three. Ben Youngs is set to win his 100th Test cap after being recalled to England's starting side along with Leicester team-mate Manu Tuilagi. Powerhouse centre Tuilagi moves into midfield, filling the vacancy left by Joseph, best known as a centre. Joseph, who will be winning his 50th cap, takes the wing position left by Daly's move to full-back. Both Daly and Joseph can expect plenty of aerial bombardment from an Ireland side renowned for their skill under the high ball. Courtney Lawes was moved to blindside flanker, with George Kruis partnering Saracens team-mate Maro Itoje in the second row. Up front, Joe Marler comes in for Mako Vunipola, absent for family reasons, at loosehead prop. Tuilagi missed England's 13-6 Calcutta Cup win over Scotland last time out with the minor groin problem that forced him off early in England's opening loss to France in Paris. Scrum-half Youngs will be making his 100th international appearance this weekend, with his 98th England cap adding to two Tests for the British and Irish Lions. Ireland coach Andy Farrell, the father of England captain Owen Farrell, named an unchanged starting line-up on Wednesday following his side's win over Wales. Victory for World Cup finalists England would deny Ireland the Triple Crown and put Jones's men firmly back in contention for the Six Nations title. "Ireland are a very good team, extremely well-coached. They are a team we respect a lot," Jones said Friday as he cited the threat posed by half-backs Conor Murray and Jonathan Sexton. "They are a tactically smart team," he added. "Murray and Sexton, who have played 170 Tests between them, at nine and 10 will manage the game well," the Australian said. "We've got to make sure we match their physicality and their emotion on the weekend." England (15-1) Elliot Daly; Jonny May, Manu Tuilagi, Owen Farrell (capt), Jonathan Joseph; George Ford, Ben Youngs; Tom Curry, Sam Underhill, Courtney Lawes; George Kruis, Maro Itoje; Kyle Sinckler, Jamie George, Joe Marler Replacements: Luke Cowan-Dickie, Ellis Genge, Will Stuart, Joe Launchbury, Charlie Ewels, Ben Earl, Willi Heinz, Henry Slade Coach: Eddie Jones (AUS)